apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/sso/index.mdx, before:

---
title: SSO Portal
description: Learn how to set up a custom SSO login portal for your organisation.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Organisation SSO Portal

The SSO Portal provides a dedicated login URL for your organisation that integrates with any OIDC compliant identity provider. This feature provides:

- **Single Sign-On**: Access Documenso using your own authentication system
- **Automatic onboarding**: New users will be automatically added to your organisation when they sign in through the portal
- **Delegated account management**: Your organisation has full control over the users who sign in through the portal

<Callout type="warning">
  Anyone who signs in through your portal will be added to your organisation as a member.
</Callout>

## Getting Started

To set up the SSO Portal, you need to be an organisation owner, admin, or manager.

<Callout type="info">
  **Enterprise Only**: This feature is only available to Enterprise customers.
</Callout>

<Steps>

### Access Organisation SSO Settings

![Organisation SSO Portal settings](/organisations/organisations-sso-settings.webp)

### Configure SSO Portal

See the [Microsoft Entra ID](/users/organisations/sso/microsoft-entra-id) guide to find the values for the following fields.

#### Issuer URL

Enter the OpenID discovery endpoint URL for your provider. Here are some common examples:

- **Google Workspace**: `https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- **Microsoft Entra ID**: `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-id}/v2.0/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- **Okta**: `https://{your-domain}.okta.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- **Auth0**: `https://{your-domain}.auth0.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`

#### Client Credentials

Enter the client ID and client secret provided by your identity provider:

- **Client ID**: The unique identifier for your application
- **Client Secret**: The secret key for authenticating your application

#### Default Organisation Role

Select the default Organisation role that new users will receive when they first sign in through the portal.

#### Allowed Email Domains

Specify which email domains are allowed to sign in through your SSO portal. Separate domains with spaces:

```
your-domain.com another-domain.com
```

Leave this field empty to allow all domains.

### Configure Your Identity Provider

You'll need to configure your identity provider with the following information:

- Redirect URI
- Scopes

These values are found at the top of the page.

### Save Configuration

Toggle the "Enable SSO portal" switch to activate the feature for your organisation.

Click "Update" to save your SSO portal configuration. The portal will be activated once all required fields are completed.

</Steps>

## Testing Your SSO Portal

Once configured, you can test your SSO portal by:

1. Navigating to your portal URL found at the top of the organisation SSO portal settings page
2. Sign in with a test account from your configured domain
3. Verifying that the user is properly provisioned with the correct organisation role

## Best Practices

### Reduce Friction

Create a custom subdomain for your organisation's SSO portal. For example, you can create a subdomain like `documenso.your-organisation.com` which redirects to the portal link.

### Security Considerations

Please note that anyone who signs in through your portal will be added to your organisation as a member.

- **Domain Restrictions**: Use allowed domains to prevent unauthorized access
- **Role Assignment**: Carefully consider the default organisation role for new users

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Invalid issuer URL"**

- Verify the issuer URL is correct and accessible
- Ensure the URL follows the OpenID Connect discovery format

**"Client authentication failed"**

- Check that your client ID and client secret are correct
- Verify that your application is properly registered with your identity provider

**"User not provisioned"**

- Check that the user's email domain is in the allowed domains list
- Verify the default organisation role is set correctly

**"Redirect URI mismatch"**

- Ensure the redirect URI in Documenso matches exactly what's configured in your identity provider
- Check for any trailing slashes or protocol mismatches

### Getting Help

If you encounter issues with your SSO portal configuration:

1. Review your identity provider's documentation for OpenID Connect setup
2. Check the Documenso logs for detailed error messages
3. Contact your identity provider's support for provider-specific issues

<Callout type="info">
  For additional support for SSO Portal configuration, contact our support team at
  support@documenso.com.
</Callout>

## Identity Provider Guides

For detailed setup instructions for specific identity providers:

- [Microsoft Entra ID](/users/organisations/sso/microsoft-entra-id) - Complete guide for Azure AD configuration

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/sso/index.mdx, after:

---
title: SSO Portal
description: Learn how to set up a custom SSO login portal for your organisation.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Organisation SSO Portal

The SSO Portal provides a dedicated login URL for your organisation that integrates with any OIDC compliant identity provider. This feature provides:

- **Single Sign-On**: Access ShieldSign using your own authentication system
- **Automatic onboarding**: New users will be automatically added to your organisation when they sign in through the portal
- **Delegated account management**: Your organisation has full control over the users who sign in through the portal

<Callout type="warning">
  Anyone who signs in through your portal will be added to your organisation as a member.
</Callout>

## Getting Started

To set up the SSO Portal, you need to be an organisation owner, admin, or manager.

<Callout type="info">
  **Enterprise Only**: This feature is only available to Enterprise customers.
</Callout>

<Steps>

### Access Organisation SSO Settings

![Organisation SSO Portal settings](/organisations/organisations-sso-settings.webp)

### Configure SSO Portal

See the [Microsoft Entra ID](/users/organisations/sso/microsoft-entra-id) guide to find the values for the following fields.

#### Issuer URL

Enter the OpenID discovery endpoint URL for your provider. Here are some common examples:

- **Google Workspace**: `https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- **Microsoft Entra ID**: `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-id}/v2.0/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- **Okta**: `https://{your-domain}.okta.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- **Auth0**: `https://{your-domain}.auth0.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`

#### Client Credentials

Enter the client ID and client secret provided by your identity provider:

- **Client ID**: The unique identifier for your application
- **Client Secret**: The secret key for authenticating your application

#### Default Organisation Role

Select the default Organisation role that new users will receive when they first sign in through the portal.

#### Allowed Email Domains

Specify which email domains are allowed to sign in through your SSO portal. Separate domains with spaces:

```
your-domain.com another-domain.com
```

Leave this field empty to allow all domains.

### Configure Your Identity Provider

You'll need to configure your identity provider with the following information:

- Redirect URI
- Scopes

These values are found at the top of the page.

### Save Configuration

Toggle the "Enable SSO portal" switch to activate the feature for your organisation.

Click "Update" to save your SSO portal configuration. The portal will be activated once all required fields are completed.

</Steps>

## Testing Your SSO Portal

Once configured, you can test your SSO portal by:

1. Navigating to your portal URL found at the top of the organisation SSO portal settings page
2. Sign in with a test account from your configured domain
3. Verifying that the user is properly provisioned with the correct organisation role

## Best Practices

### Reduce Friction

Create a custom subdomain for your organisation's SSO portal. For example, you can create a subdomain like `ShieldSign.your-organisation.com` which redirects to the portal link.

### Security Considerations

Please note that anyone who signs in through your portal will be added to your organisation as a member.

- **Domain Restrictions**: Use allowed domains to prevent unauthorized access
- **Role Assignment**: Carefully consider the default organisation role for new users

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Invalid issuer URL"**

- Verify the issuer URL is correct and accessible
- Ensure the URL follows the OpenID Connect discovery format

**"Client authentication failed"**

- Check that your client ID and client secret are correct
- Verify that your application is properly registered with your identity provider

**"User not provisioned"**

- Check that the user's email domain is in the allowed domains list
- Verify the default organisation role is set correctly

**"Redirect URI mismatch"**

- Ensure the redirect URI in ShieldSign matches exactly what's configured in your identity provider
- Check for any trailing slashes or protocol mismatches

### Getting Help

If you encounter issues with your SSO portal configuration:

1. Review your identity provider's documentation for OpenID Connect setup
2. Check the ShieldSign logs for detailed error messages
3. Contact your identity provider's support for provider-specific issues

<Callout type="info">
  For additional support for SSO Portal configuration, contact our support team at
  support@ShieldSign.com.
</Callout>

## Identity Provider Guides

For detailed setup instructions for specific identity providers:

- [Microsoft Entra ID](/users/organisations/sso/microsoft-entra-id) - Complete guide for Azure AD configuration
