apps/documentation/pages/users/documents/fields.mdx, before:

---
title: Document Fields
description: Learn about the different fields you can add to your documents in Documenso.
---

# Document Fields

Learn about the different fields you can add to your documents in Documenso and how to make the most of them.

## Signature Field

The signature field collects the signer's signature. It's required for each recipient with the "Signer" role.

![The signature field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/signature-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The signature field settings include:

- **Font size** - The typed signature font size. You can disable typed signatures in the document settings.

## Email Field

The email field is used to collect the signer's email address. This will be the email address you entered when you created the recipients.

![The email field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/email-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The email field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the email address.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the email address.

## Name Field

The name field is used to collect the signer's name.

![The name field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/name-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The name field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the name.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the name.

## Initials Field

The initials field is used to collect the signer's initials. This is generally the first and last name initials.

![The initials field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/initials-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The initials field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the initials.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the initials.

## Date Field

The date field is used to collect the date of the signature. You can change the date format in the document settings.

![The date field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/date-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The date field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the date.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the date.

## Text Field

The text field is used to collect text input from the signer.

Place the text field on the document where you want the signer to enter text. The text field comes with additional settings that can be configured.

![The text field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/text-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The text field settings include:

- **Label** - The label displayed in the field when the user opens the document to sign
- **Placeholder** - The placeholder text displayed in the field. The signer will see this prior to signing.
- **Text** - The text which will be prefilled into the field. The signer can change this text unless the field is read-only.
- **Character limit** - The maximum number of characters allowed in the field.
- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the text in the field.
- **Vertical Align** - The vertical text alignment of the text in the field.
- **Line height** - The line height of the text in the field. Useful for multi-line text fields.
- **Letter spacing** - The spacing between each character in the text in the field.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty text field. It must have a default text value.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The text field characters count can't exceed the character limit.
- The signer can't modify a read-only field.
- The field will be inserted automatically into the document if there is a default text value.

## Number Field

The number field is used for collecting a number input from the signer.

![The number field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/number-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The number field settings include:

- **Label** - The label displayed is the field.
- **Placeholder** - The placeholder text displayed in the field.
- **Value** - The value which will be prefilled into the field. The signer can change this value unless the field is read-only.
- **Number format** - The format of the number.
- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the number in the field.
- **Vertical Align** - The vertical text alignment of the number in the field.
- **Line height** - The line height of the number in the field. Useful for multi-line number fields.
- **Letter spacing** - The spacing between each character in the number in the field.
- **Validation** - The validation rules for the field.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The value must be a number.
- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty number field. It must have a default number value.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- If the default number and a max value are set, the default number must be less than the max value.
- If the default number and a min value are set, the default number must be greater than the min value.
- The value must match the number format if a number format is set.

## Radio Field

The radio field is used to collect a single choice from the signer.

![The radio field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/radio-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The radio field settings include:

- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Values** - The list of choices for the field.
- **Direction** - The direction of the radio field. Can be "Vertical" or "Horizontal".

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty radio field. It must have at least one option.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The field auto-signs if there is a default value.
- The signer can't sign with a value not in the options list.
- The signer can't modify the field if it's read-only.
- It should contain at least one option.
- The field can't have more than one option selected.

## Checkbox Field

The checkbox field is used to collect multiple choices from the signer.

Place the checkbox field on the document where you want the signer to select choices. The checkbox field comes with additional settings that can be configured.

![The checkbox field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/checkbox-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The checkbox field settings include the following:

- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Options** - The list of choices for the field.
- **Direction** - The direction of the checkbox field. Can be "Vertical" or "Horizontal".
- **Validation Rule** - The rule specifies "At least", "At most", and "Exactly".
- **Validation Number** - The number of choices that must be selected.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty checkbox field. It must have at least one checked option.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The field auto-signs if there is a default value.
- The signer can't sign with a value not in the options list.
- The signer can't modify the field if it's read-only.
- It should contain at least one option.

## Dropdown/Select Field

The dropdown/select field collects a single choice from a list of options.

Place the dropdown/select field on the document where you want the signer to select a choice. The dropdown/select field comes with additional settings that can be configured.

{/* ![The dropdown/select field in the Documenso document editor](/document-signing/dropdown-field-document-editor-view.webp) */}

The dropdown/select field settings include:

- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Options** - The list of choices for the field.
- **Default Value** - The default value selected in the field.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty select field. It must have a default value.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The default value must be one of the options.
- The field auto-signs if there is a default value.
- The field can't be signed with a value not in the options list.
- The signer can't modify the field if it's read-only.
- It should contain at least one option.

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/users/documents/fields.mdx, after:

---
title: Document Fields
description: Learn about the different fields you can add to your documents in ShieldSign.
---

# Document Fields

Learn about the different fields you can add to your documents in ShieldSign and how to make the most of them.

## Signature Field

The signature field collects the signer's signature. It's required for each recipient with the "Signer" role.

![The signature field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/signature-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The signature field settings include:

- **Font size** - The typed signature font size. You can disable typed signatures in the document settings.

## Email Field

The email field is used to collect the signer's email address. This will be the email address you entered when you created the recipients.

![The email field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/email-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The email field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the email address.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the email address.

## Name Field

The name field is used to collect the signer's name.

![The name field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/name-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The name field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the name.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the name.

## Initials Field

The initials field is used to collect the signer's initials. This is generally the first and last name initials.

![The initials field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/initials-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The initials field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the initials.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the initials.

## Date Field

The date field is used to collect the date of the signature. You can change the date format in the document settings.

![The date field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/date-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The date field settings include:

- **Font Size** - The font size of the date.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the date.

## Text Field

The text field is used to collect text input from the signer.

Place the text field on the document where you want the signer to enter text. The text field comes with additional settings that can be configured.

![The text field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/text-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The text field settings include:

- **Label** - The label displayed in the field when the user opens the document to sign
- **Placeholder** - The placeholder text displayed in the field. The signer will see this prior to signing.
- **Text** - The text which will be prefilled into the field. The signer can change this text unless the field is read-only.
- **Character limit** - The maximum number of characters allowed in the field.
- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the text in the field.
- **Vertical Align** - The vertical text alignment of the text in the field.
- **Line height** - The line height of the text in the field. Useful for multi-line text fields.
- **Letter spacing** - The spacing between each character in the text in the field.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty text field. It must have a default text value.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The text field characters count can't exceed the character limit.
- The signer can't modify a read-only field.
- The field will be inserted automatically into the document if there is a default text value.

## Number Field

The number field is used for collecting a number input from the signer.

![The number field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/number-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The number field settings include:

- **Label** - The label displayed is the field.
- **Placeholder** - The placeholder text displayed in the field.
- **Value** - The value which will be prefilled into the field. The signer can change this value unless the field is read-only.
- **Number format** - The format of the number.
- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Text Align** - The horizontal text alignment of the number in the field.
- **Vertical Align** - The vertical text alignment of the number in the field.
- **Line height** - The line height of the number in the field. Useful for multi-line number fields.
- **Letter spacing** - The spacing between each character in the number in the field.
- **Validation** - The validation rules for the field.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The value must be a number.
- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty number field. It must have a default number value.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- If the default number and a max value are set, the default number must be less than the max value.
- If the default number and a min value are set, the default number must be greater than the min value.
- The value must match the number format if a number format is set.

## Radio Field

The radio field is used to collect a single choice from the signer.

![The radio field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/radio-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The radio field settings include:

- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Values** - The list of choices for the field.
- **Direction** - The direction of the radio field. Can be "Vertical" or "Horizontal".

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty radio field. It must have at least one option.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The field auto-signs if there is a default value.
- The signer can't sign with a value not in the options list.
- The signer can't modify the field if it's read-only.
- It should contain at least one option.
- The field can't have more than one option selected.

## Checkbox Field

The checkbox field is used to collect multiple choices from the signer.

Place the checkbox field on the document where you want the signer to select choices. The checkbox field comes with additional settings that can be configured.

![The checkbox field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/checkbox-field-document-editor-view.webp)

The checkbox field settings include the following:

- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Options** - The list of choices for the field.
- **Direction** - The direction of the checkbox field. Can be "Vertical" or "Horizontal".
- **Validation Rule** - The rule specifies "At least", "At most", and "Exactly".
- **Validation Number** - The number of choices that must be selected.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty checkbox field. It must have at least one checked option.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The field auto-signs if there is a default value.
- The signer can't sign with a value not in the options list.
- The signer can't modify the field if it's read-only.
- It should contain at least one option.

## Dropdown/Select Field

The dropdown/select field collects a single choice from a list of options.

Place the dropdown/select field on the document where you want the signer to select a choice. The dropdown/select field comes with additional settings that can be configured.

{/* ![The dropdown/select field in the ShieldSign document editor](/document-signing/dropdown-field-document-editor-view.webp) */}

The dropdown/select field settings include:

- **Required** - Whether the field is required or not.
- **Read only** - Whether the field is read-only or not.
- **Options** - The list of choices for the field.
- **Default Value** - The default value selected in the field.

It also comes with a couple of rules:

- The field can't be required and read-only at the same time.
- A read-only field can't have an empty select field. It must have a default value.
- The signer must fill out a required field.
- The default value must be one of the options.
- The field auto-signs if there is a default value.
- The field can't be signed with a value not in the options list.
- The signer can't modify the field if it's read-only.
- It should contain at least one option.
