apps/documentation/pages/developers/contributing/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
description: Learn how to contribute to Documenso and become part of our community.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Contributing to Documenso

If you plan to contribute to Documenso, please take a moment to feel awesome. People like you are what open source is about. Any contributions, no matter how big or small, are highly appreciated.

This guide will help you get started with contributing to Documenso.

## Before Getting Started

<Steps>

### Check the Existing Issues and Pull Requests

Search the existing [issues](https://github.com/documenso/documenso/issues) to see if someone else reported the same issue. Or, check the [existing PRs](https://github.com/documenso/documenso/pulls) to see if someone else is already working on the same thing.

### Creating a New Issue

If there is no issue or PR for the problem you are facing, feel free to create a new issue. Make sure to provide as much detail as possible, including the steps to reproduce the issue.

### Picking an Existing Issue

If you pick an existing issue, take into consideration the discussion on the issue.

### Contributor License Agreement

Accept the [Contributor License Agreement](https://documen.so/cla) to ensure we can accept your contributions.

</Steps>

## Taking Issues

Before taking an issue, ensure that:

- The issue has been assigned the public label.
- The issue is clearly defined and understood.
- No one has been assigned to the issue.
- No one has expressed the intention to work on it.

After that:

1. Comment on the issue with your intention to work on it.
2. Start working on the issue.

Feel free to ask for help, clarification or guidance if needed. We are here to help you.

## Developing

The development branch is `main`, and all pull requests should be made against this branch. Here's how you can get started with developing:

<Steps>

### Set Up Documenso Locally

To set up your local environment, check out the [local development](/developers/local-development) guide.

### Pick a Task

Find an issue to work on or create a new one.

> Before working on an issue, ensure that no one else is working on it. If no one is assigned to the issue, you can pick it up by leaving a comment and asking to assign it to you.

Before creating a new issue, check the existing issues to see if someone else has already reported it.

### Create a New Branch

After you're assigned an issue, you can start working on it. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.

When creating a branch, make sure that the branch name:

- starts with the correct prefix: `feat/` for new features, `fix/` for bug fixes, etc.
- includes the issue ID you are working on (if applicable).
- is descriptive.

```sh
git checkout -b feat/issue-id-your-branch-name

## Example
git checkout -b feat/1234-add-share-button-to-articles
```

In the pull request description, include `references #yyyy` or `fixes #yyyy` to link it to the issue you are working on.

### Implement Your Changes

Start working on the issue you picked up and implement the changes. Make sure to test your changes locally and ensure that they work as expected.

### Open a Pull Request

After implementing your changes, open a pull request against the `main` branch.

</Steps>

<Callout type="info">
  If you need help getting started, [join us on Discord](https://documen.so/discord).
</Callout>

## Building

Before pushing code or creating pull requests, please ensure you can successfully create a successful production build. You can build the project by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm run build
```

Once the project builds successfully, you can push your code changes or create a pull request.

<Callout type="info">
  Remember to run tests and perform any necessary checks before finalizing your changes. As a
  result, we can collaborate more effectively and maintain a high standard of code quality in our
  project.
</Callout>

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/developers/contributing/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
description: Learn how to contribute to ShieldSign and become part of our community.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Contributing to ShieldSign

If you plan to contribute to ShieldSign, please take a moment to feel awesome. People like you are what open source is about. Any contributions, no matter how big or small, are highly appreciated.

This guide will help you get started with contributing to ShieldSign.

## Before Getting Started

<Steps>

### Check the Existing Issues and Pull Requests

Search the existing [issues](https://github.com/ShieldSign/ShieldSign/issues) to see if someone else reported the same issue. Or, check the [existing PRs](https://github.com/ShieldSign/ShieldSign/pulls) to see if someone else is already working on the same thing.

### Creating a New Issue

If there is no issue or PR for the problem you are facing, feel free to create a new issue. Make sure to provide as much detail as possible, including the steps to reproduce the issue.

### Picking an Existing Issue

If you pick an existing issue, take into consideration the discussion on the issue.

### Contributor License Agreement

Accept the [Contributor License Agreement](https://documen.so/cla) to ensure we can accept your contributions.

</Steps>

## Taking Issues

Before taking an issue, ensure that:

- The issue has been assigned the public label.
- The issue is clearly defined and understood.
- No one has been assigned to the issue.
- No one has expressed the intention to work on it.

After that:

1. Comment on the issue with your intention to work on it.
2. Start working on the issue.

Feel free to ask for help, clarification or guidance if needed. We are here to help you.

## Developing

The development branch is `main`, and all pull requests should be made against this branch. Here's how you can get started with developing:

<Steps>

### Set Up ShieldSign Locally

To set up your local environment, check out the [local development](/developers/local-development) guide.

### Pick a Task

Find an issue to work on or create a new one.

> Before working on an issue, ensure that no one else is working on it. If no one is assigned to the issue, you can pick it up by leaving a comment and asking to assign it to you.

Before creating a new issue, check the existing issues to see if someone else has already reported it.

### Create a New Branch

After you're assigned an issue, you can start working on it. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.

When creating a branch, make sure that the branch name:

- starts with the correct prefix: `feat/` for new features, `fix/` for bug fixes, etc.
- includes the issue ID you are working on (if applicable).
- is descriptive.

```sh
git checkout -b feat/issue-id-your-branch-name

## Example
git checkout -b feat/1234-add-share-button-to-articles
```

In the pull request description, include `references #yyyy` or `fixes #yyyy` to link it to the issue you are working on.

### Implement Your Changes

Start working on the issue you picked up and implement the changes. Make sure to test your changes locally and ensure that they work as expected.

### Open a Pull Request

After implementing your changes, open a pull request against the `main` branch.

</Steps>

<Callout type="info">
  If you need help getting started, [join us on Discord](https://documen.so/discord).
</Callout>

## Building

Before pushing code or creating pull requests, please ensure you can successfully create a successful production build. You can build the project by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm run build
```

Once the project builds successfully, you can push your code changes or create a pull request.

<Callout type="info">
  Remember to run tests and perform any necessary checks before finalizing your changes. As a
  result, we can collaborate more effectively and maintain a high standard of code quality in our
  project.
</Callout>
