apps/documentation/pages/users/profile.mdx, before:

---
title: Public Profile
description: Learn how to set up your public profile on Documenso.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# User Profile

Documenso allows you to create a public profile to share your templates for anyone to sign. This is useful for distributing and collecting signatures for commonly used documents, making it more efficient for both the document creator and the signers.

<Callout type="info">A free Documenso account gives you 5 free signatures per month.</Callout>

<Steps>

### Navigate to Your Profile Settings

Click on your profile picture in the top right corner and select "Settings" or "Team Settings". Then, navigate to the "Public Profile" tab to configure your profile.

![The profile settings page](/public-profile/documenso-public-profile-settings.webp)

### (Mandatory) Set Your Profile URL

This is the URL that people will use to access your profile. We recommend choosing something easy to remember and share.

The structure of the URL is as follows:

```bash
https://app.documenso.com/p/<username>
```

Setting the public profile URL is mandatory to publish your profile.

### (Optional) Add a Bio Description

If you want to add a description to your profile, you can do so here. This is a good place to introduce yourself and explain what kind of documents you have available for signing.

### (Optional) Add a Profile Picture

Uploading a profile picture is optional, but we recommend it to make your profile more recognizable.

### Private/Public Profile

You can choose to make your profile public or private. Only you can access it if you make it private. If you make it public, anyone with the link can access it.

To make your profile public, toggle the switch to the right ("Show") at the top right-hand side of the page.

![An example of a enabling a public profile on Documenso](/public-profile/documenso-enable-public-profile-settings.webp)

### (Optional) Link Templates

Linking templates to your profile is optional, but it's what makes your profile helpful. Linking templates allow people to sign documents directly from your profile. As a result, we recommend linking at least one template you want to share with others.

Learn more about [templates](/users/templates).

### Publish your Profile

After configuring your profile, click the "Update" button at the bottom of the page to publish it. Once you have published your profile, you can share the link with others if you made it public.

![An example of a public profile on Documenso](/direct-links/documenso-profile.webp)

The image above shows an example of a public profile on Documenso.

### Share the Link

Add the link to your other social profiles and share it on social media so people know they can quickly sign your documents from there.

<Callout>Tag @documenso on X to get a retweet and an endorsement from us.</Callout>

</Steps>

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/users/profile.mdx, after:

---
title: Public Profile
description: Learn how to set up your public profile on ShieldSign.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# User Profile

ShieldSign allows you to create a public profile to share your templates for anyone to sign. This is useful for distributing and collecting signatures for commonly used documents, making it more efficient for both the document creator and the signers.

<Callout type="info">A free ShieldSign account gives you 5 free signatures per month.</Callout>

<Steps>

### Navigate to Your Profile Settings

Click on your profile picture in the top right corner and select "Settings" or "Team Settings". Then, navigate to the "Public Profile" tab to configure your profile.

![The profile settings page](/public-profile/shieldsign-public-profile-settings.webp)

### (Mandatory) Set Your Profile URL

This is the URL that people will use to access your profile. We recommend choosing something easy to remember and share.

The structure of the URL is as follows:

```bash
https://app.ShieldSign.com/p/<username>
```

Setting the public profile URL is mandatory to publish your profile.

### (Optional) Add a Bio Description

If you want to add a description to your profile, you can do so here. This is a good place to introduce yourself and explain what kind of documents you have available for signing.

### (Optional) Add a Profile Picture

Uploading a profile picture is optional, but we recommend it to make your profile more recognizable.

### Private/Public Profile

You can choose to make your profile public or private. Only you can access it if you make it private. If you make it public, anyone with the link can access it.

To make your profile public, toggle the switch to the right ("Show") at the top right-hand side of the page.

![An example of a enabling a public profile on ShieldSign](/public-profile/shieldsign-enable-public-profile-settings.webp)

### (Optional) Link Templates

Linking templates to your profile is optional, but it's what makes your profile helpful. Linking templates allow people to sign documents directly from your profile. As a result, we recommend linking at least one template you want to share with others.

Learn more about [templates](/users/templates).

### Publish your Profile

After configuring your profile, click the "Update" button at the bottom of the page to publish it. Once you have published your profile, you can share the link with others if you made it public.

![An example of a public profile on ShieldSign](/direct-links/shieldsign-profile.webp)

The image above shows an example of a public profile on ShieldSign.

### Share the Link

Add the link to your other social profiles and share it on social media so people know they can quickly sign your documents from there.

<Callout>Tag @ShieldSign on X to get a retweet and an endorsement from us.</Callout>

</Steps>
