apps/documentation/pages/developers/self-hosting/setting-up-oauth-providers.mdx, before:

---
title: Setting up OAuth Providers
description: Learn how to set up OAuth providers for your own instance of Documenso.
---

## Google OAuth (Gmail)

To use Google OAuth, you will need to create a Google Cloud Platform project and enable the Google Identity and Access Management (IAM) API. You will also need to create a new OAuth client ID and download the client secret.

### Create and configure a new OAuth client ID

1. Go to the [Google Cloud Platform Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. From the projects list, select a project or create a new one
3. If the APIs & services page isn't already open, open the console left side menu and select APIs & services
4. On the left, click Credentials
5. Click New Credentials, then select OAuth client ID
6. When prompted to select an application type, select Web application
7. Enter a name for your client ID, and click Create
8. Click the download button to download the client secret
9. Set the authorized javascript origins to `https://<documenso-domain>`
10. Set the authorized redirect URIs to `https://<documenso-domain>/api/auth/callback/google`
11. In the Documenso environment variables, set the following:

```
NEXT_PRIVATE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=<your-client-id>
NEXT_PRIVATE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-client-secret>
```

Finally verify the signing in with Google works by signing in with your Google account and checking the email address in your profile.

## Microsoft OAuth (Azure AD)

To use Microsoft OAuth, you will need to create an Azure AD application registration in the Microsoft Azure portal. This will allow users to sign in with their Microsoft accounts.

### Create and configure a new Azure AD application

1. Go to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/)
2. Navigate to **Azure Active Directory** (or **Microsoft Entra ID** in newer Azure portals)
3. In the left sidebar, click **App registrations**
4. Click **New registration**
5. Enter a name for your application (e.g., "Documenso")
6. Under **Supported account types**, select **Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Azure AD directory - Multitenant) and personal Microsoft accounts (e.g. Skype, Xbox)** to allow any Microsoft account to sign in
7. Under **Redirect URI**, select **Web** and enter: `https://<documenso-domain>/api/auth/callback/microsoft`
8. Click **Register**

### Configure the application

1. After registration, you'll be taken to the app's overview page
2. Copy the **Application (client) ID** - this will be your `NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_ID`
3. In the left sidebar, click **Certificates & secrets**
4. Under **Client secrets**, click **New client secret**
5. Add a description and select an expiration period
6. Click **Add** and copy the **Value** (not the Secret ID) - this will be your `NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_SECRET`
7. In the Documenso environment variables, set the following:

```
NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_ID=<your-application-client-id>
NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-client-secret-value>
```

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/developers/self-hosting/setting-up-oauth-providers.mdx, after:

---
title: Setting up OAuth Providers
description: Learn how to set up OAuth providers for your own instance of ShieldSign.
---

## Google OAuth (Gmail)

To use Google OAuth, you will need to create a Google Cloud Platform project and enable the Google Identity and Access Management (IAM) API. You will also need to create a new OAuth client ID and download the client secret.

### Create and configure a new OAuth client ID

1. Go to the [Google Cloud Platform Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. From the projects list, select a project or create a new one
3. If the APIs & services page isn't already open, open the console left side menu and select APIs & services
4. On the left, click Credentials
5. Click New Credentials, then select OAuth client ID
6. When prompted to select an application type, select Web application
7. Enter a name for your client ID, and click Create
8. Click the download button to download the client secret
9. Set the authorized javascript origins to `https://<ShieldSign-domain>`
10. Set the authorized redirect URIs to `https://<ShieldSign-domain>/api/auth/callback/google`
11. In the ShieldSign environment variables, set the following:

```
NEXT_PRIVATE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=<your-client-id>
NEXT_PRIVATE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-client-secret>
```

Finally verify the signing in with Google works by signing in with your Google account and checking the email address in your profile.

## Microsoft OAuth (Azure AD)

To use Microsoft OAuth, you will need to create an Azure AD application registration in the Microsoft Azure portal. This will allow users to sign in with their Microsoft accounts.

### Create and configure a new Azure AD application

1. Go to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/)
2. Navigate to **Azure Active Directory** (or **Microsoft Entra ID** in newer Azure portals)
3. In the left sidebar, click **App registrations**
4. Click **New registration**
5. Enter a name for your application (e.g., "ShieldSign")
6. Under **Supported account types**, select **Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Azure AD directory - Multitenant) and personal Microsoft accounts (e.g. Skype, Xbox)** to allow any Microsoft account to sign in
7. Under **Redirect URI**, select **Web** and enter: `https://<ShieldSign-domain>/api/auth/callback/microsoft`
8. Click **Register**

### Configure the application

1. After registration, you'll be taken to the app's overview page
2. Copy the **Application (client) ID** - this will be your `NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_ID`
3. In the left sidebar, click **Certificates & secrets**
4. Under **Client secrets**, click **New client secret**
5. Add a description and select an expiration period
6. Click **Add** and copy the **Value** (not the Secret ID) - this will be your `NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_SECRET`
7. In the ShieldSign environment variables, set the following:

```
NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_ID=<your-application-client-id>
NEXT_PRIVATE_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-client-secret-value>
```
