apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Organisations
description: Learn how to create and manage organisations in Documenso.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Organisations

Organisations allow you to manage multiple teams and users under a single managed entity. This powerful feature enables enterprise-level collaboration and streamlined management across your entire organisation.

## What are Organisations?

Organisations are the top-level entity in Documenso's hierarchy structure:

![Organisations diagram](/organisations/organisations-basic-diagram.webp)

Each organisation can contain multiple teams, and each team can have multiple members. This structure provides:

- **Centralized Management**: Control multiple teams from a single organisational dashboard
- **Unified Billing**: Manage billing and subscriptions at the organisation level
- **Access Control**: Define roles and groups across the entire organisation
- **Group Management**: Create custom groups to organise members and control team access
- **Global Settings**: Apply consistent settings across all teams in your organisation

## Create a new organisation

You can create multiple organisations, but each organisation will be billed separately.

<Steps>

### Creating Organisations

To create a new organisation, navigate to the organisation section in your account settings and click the "Create Organisation" button.

![Create organisation in Documenso dashboard](/organisations/organisations-create.webp)

### Select your plan

Choose from our range of plans for your new organisation. If you want to instead upgrade your current organisation, you can do so by going into your settings billing page and upgrade it there.

### Name setup

When creating an organisation, you'll need to provide:

- **Organisation Name**: The display name for your organisation

</Steps>

Once your organisation is established, you can create teams to organise your work and collaborate effectively. Each team operates independently but inherits organisation-level settings and branding.

## Best Practices for Organisation Management

1. **Use groups effectively**: Leverage groups to simplify permission management
2. **Set default settings**: Configure organisation-wide settings for consistency

## What's next?

- [Create Your First Team](/users/organisations/teams)
- [Invite Organisation Members](/users/organisations/members)
- [Create Organisation Groups](/users/organisations/groups)
- [Manage Default Settings](/users/documents/document-preferences)
- [Manage Default Branding](/users/branding)

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Organisations
description: Learn how to create and manage organisations in ShieldSign.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Organisations

Organisations allow you to manage multiple teams and users under a single managed entity. This powerful feature enables enterprise-level collaboration and streamlined management across your entire organisation.

## What are Organisations?

Organisations are the top-level entity in ShieldSign's hierarchy structure:

![Organisations diagram](/organisations/organisations-basic-diagram.webp)

Each organisation can contain multiple teams, and each team can have multiple members. This structure provides:

- **Centralized Management**: Control multiple teams from a single organisational dashboard
- **Unified Billing**: Manage billing and subscriptions at the organisation level
- **Access Control**: Define roles and groups across the entire organisation
- **Group Management**: Create custom groups to organise members and control team access
- **Global Settings**: Apply consistent settings across all teams in your organisation

## Create a new organisation

You can create multiple organisations, but each organisation will be billed separately.

<Steps>

### Creating Organisations

To create a new organisation, navigate to the organisation section in your account settings and click the "Create Organisation" button.

![Create organisation in ShieldSign dashboard](/organisations/organisations-create.webp)

### Select your plan

Choose from our range of plans for your new organisation. If you want to instead upgrade your current organisation, you can do so by going into your settings billing page and upgrade it there.

### Name setup

When creating an organisation, you'll need to provide:

- **Organisation Name**: The display name for your organisation

</Steps>

Once your organisation is established, you can create teams to organise your work and collaborate effectively. Each team operates independently but inherits organisation-level settings and branding.

## Best Practices for Organisation Management

1. **Use groups effectively**: Leverage groups to simplify permission management
2. **Set default settings**: Configure organisation-wide settings for consistency

## What's next?

- [Create Your First Team](/users/organisations/teams)
- [Invite Organisation Members](/users/organisations/members)
- [Create Organisation Groups](/users/organisations/groups)
- [Manage Default Settings](/users/documents/document-preferences)
- [Manage Default Branding](/users/branding)
