apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/teams.mdx, before:

---
title: Teams
description: Learn how to create and manage teams in Documenso.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Teams

Documenso teams allow you to collaborate with others on creating, sending and receiving documents within your organisation. Teams operate within the organisational structure and inherit settings and branding from their parent organisation.

## Team Structure

Teams provide focused collaboration spaces while benefiting from organisation-level management and settings.

Each team within an organisation has its own:

- Team members and roles
- Documents and templates
- Team-specific settings (that can override organisation defaults)
- Team email and branding (if enabled)

## Creating a Team

Only members with the "Organisation Admin" or "Organisation Manager" role can create teams.

<Steps>

### Create Team

To create a team, navigate to the organisation settings page and click the "Teams" tab. Then you can click the "Create Team" button.

![Create Team Dialog](/teams/team-create.webp)

### Name and URL

When creating a team, you'll need to provide:

- **Team Name**: The display name for your team
- **Team URL**: A unique identifier for your team

The team URL will follow this format:

```bash
https://app.documenso.com/t/<team-url>
```

You can select different names and URLs for your team, but we recommend using the same or similar names for consistency.

![Documenso create team modal](/teams/team-create-dialog.webp)

You can also decide whether to automatically inherit members from the organisation into the team. This means that all members of the organisation will have access to this team.

Members with the "Organisation Admin" or "Organisation Manager" role will be assigned as "Team Admin" regardless of this setting. This will only affect members with the "Organisation Member" role, who will be added to the team as a "Team Member".

Disabling this setting will remove all these members automatically. This can always be turned on or off later in the teams member settings page.

</Steps>

## Team Members

After creating the team, you can add organisation members into your team using two methods:

- Directly adding members to the team
- Add members using groups

### Directly adding members

1. Navigate to the team settings member page
2. Click the "Add Members" button
3. Choose which members you want to add
4. Assign the team roles for each team member

If you want to add people outside of the organisation, you will need to invite them to the organisation first.

See the [organisation members](/users/organisations/members#invite-organisation-members) page for more information.

### Adding members using groups

1. Navigate to the teams settings groups page
2. Click the "Add groups" button
3. Choose which groups you want to add
4. Assign the team roles for each group

See the [organisation groups](/users/organisations/groups) page for more information.

### Team Member Roles

You can assign different permissions to team members based on their roles. The roles available are:

|     Role     | Manage Documents | Manage Team | Delete Team |
| :----------: | :--------------: | :---------: | :---------: |
|  Team Admin  |        ✅        |     ✅      |     ✅      |
| Team Manager |        ✅        |     ✅      |     ❌      |
| Team Member  |        ✅        |     ❌      |     ❌      |

These roles can be used for document visibility and management as well.

## Set a Team Email

You can add a team email which allows you to:

- See signing requests sent to this email (Team Inbox)
- See documents sent from this email
- Send documents on behalf of the team
- Maintain consistent team branding in communications

## Team Settings and Branding

You can override preferences and settings from the Organisation on the Team level. See the following pages for more information:

- [Document preferences](/users/documents/document-preferences)
- [Branding preferences](/users/branding/branding-preferences)

## What's next?

- [Send your first document](/users/documents/sending-documents)
- [Setup your default document preferences](/users/documents/document-preferences)
- [Setup your default branding preferences](/users/branding)

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/teams.mdx, after:

---
title: Teams
description: Learn how to create and manage teams in ShieldSign.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Teams

ShieldSign teams allow you to collaborate with others on creating, sending and receiving documents within your organisation. Teams operate within the organisational structure and inherit settings and branding from their parent organisation.

## Team Structure

Teams provide focused collaboration spaces while benefiting from organisation-level management and settings.

Each team within an organisation has its own:

- Team members and roles
- Documents and templates
- Team-specific settings (that can override organisation defaults)
- Team email and branding (if enabled)

## Creating a Team

Only members with the "Organisation Admin" or "Organisation Manager" role can create teams.

<Steps>

### Create Team

To create a team, navigate to the organisation settings page and click the "Teams" tab. Then you can click the "Create Team" button.

![Create Team Dialog](/teams/team-create.webp)

### Name and URL

When creating a team, you'll need to provide:

- **Team Name**: The display name for your team
- **Team URL**: A unique identifier for your team

The team URL will follow this format:

```bash
https://app.ShieldSign.com/t/<team-url>
```

You can select different names and URLs for your team, but we recommend using the same or similar names for consistency.

![ShieldSign create team modal](/teams/team-create-dialog.webp)

You can also decide whether to automatically inherit members from the organisation into the team. This means that all members of the organisation will have access to this team.

Members with the "Organisation Admin" or "Organisation Manager" role will be assigned as "Team Admin" regardless of this setting. This will only affect members with the "Organisation Member" role, who will be added to the team as a "Team Member".

Disabling this setting will remove all these members automatically. This can always be turned on or off later in the teams member settings page.

</Steps>

## Team Members

After creating the team, you can add organisation members into your team using two methods:

- Directly adding members to the team
- Add members using groups

### Directly adding members

1. Navigate to the team settings member page
2. Click the "Add Members" button
3. Choose which members you want to add
4. Assign the team roles for each team member

If you want to add people outside of the organisation, you will need to invite them to the organisation first.

See the [organisation members](/users/organisations/members#invite-organisation-members) page for more information.

### Adding members using groups

1. Navigate to the teams settings groups page
2. Click the "Add groups" button
3. Choose which groups you want to add
4. Assign the team roles for each group

See the [organisation groups](/users/organisations/groups) page for more information.

### Team Member Roles

You can assign different permissions to team members based on their roles. The roles available are:

|     Role     | Manage Documents | Manage Team | Delete Team |
| :----------: | :--------------: | :---------: | :---------: |
|  Team Admin  |        ✅        |     ✅      |     ✅      |
| Team Manager |        ✅        |     ✅      |     ❌      |
| Team Member  |        ✅        |     ❌      |     ❌      |

These roles can be used for document visibility and management as well.

## Set a Team Email

You can add a team email which allows you to:

- See signing requests sent to this email (Team Inbox)
- See documents sent from this email
- Send documents on behalf of the team
- Maintain consistent team branding in communications

## Team Settings and Branding

You can override preferences and settings from the Organisation on the Team level. See the following pages for more information:

- [Document preferences](/users/documents/document-preferences)
- [Branding preferences](/users/branding/branding-preferences)

## What's next?

- [Send your first document](/users/documents/sending-documents)
- [Setup your default document preferences](/users/documents/document-preferences)
- [Setup your default branding preferences](/users/branding)
