apps/documentation/pages/developers/local-development/manual.mdx, before:

---
title: Manual Setup
description: Manually set up Documenso on your machine for local development.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Manual Setup

Follow these steps to set up Documenso on your local machine:

<Steps>

### Fork Documenso

Fork the [Documenso repository](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/about-forks) to your GitHub account.

### Clone Repository

After forking the repository, clone it to your local device by using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/documenso
```

### Install Dependencies

Run `npm i` in the root directory to install the dependencies required for the project.

### Set Up Environment Variables

Set up the following environment variables in the `.env` file:

```bash
NEXTAUTH_SECRET
NEXT_PUBLIC_WEBAPP_URL
NEXT_PRIVATE_DATABASE_URL
NEXT_PRIVATE_DIRECT_DATABASE_URL
NEXT_PRIVATE_SMTP_FROM_NAME
NEXT_PRIVATE_SMTP_FROM_ADDRESS
```

Alternatively, you can run `cp .env.example .env` to get started with our handpicked defaults.

### Create Database Schema

Create the database schema by running the following command:

```bash
npm run prisma:migrate-dev
```

### Optional: Seed the Database

Seed the database with test data by running the following command:

```bash
npm run prisma:seed -w @documenso/prisma
```

### Start the Application

Run `npm run dev` in the root directory to start the application.

### Access the Application

Access the Documenso application by visiting `http://localhost:3000` in your web browser.

</Steps>

<Callout type="info">
  Optional: Create your signing certificate. To generate your own using these steps and a Linux
  Terminal or Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), see **[Create your signing
  certificate](/developers/local-development/signing-certificate)**.
</Callout>

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/developers/local-development/manual.mdx, after:

---
title: Manual Setup
description: Manually set up ShieldSign on your machine for local development.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Manual Setup

Follow these steps to set up ShieldSign on your local machine:

<Steps>

### Fork ShieldSign

Fork the [ShieldSign repository](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/about-forks) to your GitHub account.

### Clone Repository

After forking the repository, clone it to your local device by using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/ShieldSign
```

### Install Dependencies

Run `npm i` in the root directory to install the dependencies required for the project.

### Set Up Environment Variables

Set up the following environment variables in the `.env` file:

```bash
NEXTAUTH_SECRET
NEXT_PUBLIC_WEBAPP_URL
NEXT_PRIVATE_DATABASE_URL
NEXT_PRIVATE_DIRECT_DATABASE_URL
NEXT_PRIVATE_SMTP_FROM_NAME
NEXT_PRIVATE_SMTP_FROM_ADDRESS
```

Alternatively, you can run `cp .env.example .env` to get started with our handpicked defaults.

### Create Database Schema

Create the database schema by running the following command:

```bash
npm run prisma:migrate-dev
```

### Optional: Seed the Database

Seed the database with test data by running the following command:

```bash
npm run prisma:seed -w @ShieldSign/prisma
```

### Start the Application

Run `npm run dev` in the root directory to start the application.

### Access the Application

Access the ShieldSign application by visiting `http://localhost:3000` in your web browser.

</Steps>

<Callout type="info">
  Optional: Create your signing certificate. To generate your own using these steps and a Linux
  Terminal or Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), see **[Create your signing
  certificate](/developers/local-development/signing-certificate)**.
</Callout>
