apps/documentation/pages/developers/local-development/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: Developer Quickstart
description: Quickly set up Documenso on your machine for local development with Docker and Docker Compose.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Developer Quickstart

<Callout type="info">
  **Note**: This guide assumes that you have both [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and
  [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) installed on your machine.
</Callout>

Want to get up and running quickly? Follow these steps:

<Steps>

### Fork Documenso

Fork the [Documenso repository](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/about-forks) to your GitHub account.

### Clone Repository

After forking the repository, clone it to your local device by using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/documenso
```

### Set Up Environment Variables

Set up your environment variables in the `.env` file using the `.env.example` file as a reference.

Alternatively, you can run `cp .env.example .env` to get started with our handpicked defaults.

### Start Database and Mail Server

Run `npm run dx` in the root directory.

This will spin up a Postgres database and inbucket mailserver in a docker container.

### Start the Application

Run `npm run dev` in the root directory to start the application.

### (Optional) Fasten the Process

Want it even faster? Just use:

```sh
npm run d
```

</Steps>

### Access Points for the Project

You can access the following services:

- Main application - http://localhost:3000
- Incoming Mail Access - http://localhost:9000
- Database Connection Details:
- Port: 54320
- Connection: Use your favourite database client to connect to the database.
- S3 Storage Dashboard - http://localhost:9001

Commit message:

chore: complete ShieldSign rebrand and pre-release cleanup
SECURITY:
- Remove build.log from tracking (contained local paths)
- Enhance .gitignore with comprehensive exclusions
- Verify 0 npm vulnerabilities

BRANDING:
- Generate and deploy all ShieldSign icons (favicons, android-chrome, apple-touch)
- Update site.webmanifest: name='ShieldSign', theme=#14b8a6
- Rebrand 12 translation files (~720 strings)
- Rebrand 30+ documentation files
- Rename 22 documentation screenshots from documenso- to shieldsign-
- Standardize logo filenames (remove spaces, use kebab-case)

AGPL COMPLIANCE:
- Fix README.md attribution to reference Documenso v2.1.0
- Fix NOTICE.md with correct Documenso attribution
- Preserve required attribution links

Add scripts/generate-icons.mjs for future icon regeneration

ShieldSign-core ready for public release.

apps/documentation/pages/developers/local-development/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: Developer Quickstart
description: Quickly set up ShieldSign on your machine for local development with Docker and Docker Compose.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Developer Quickstart

<Callout type="info">
  **Note**: This guide assumes that you have both [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and
  [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) installed on your machine.
</Callout>

Want to get up and running quickly? Follow these steps:

<Steps>

### Fork ShieldSign

Fork the [ShieldSign repository](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/about-forks) to your GitHub account.

### Clone Repository

After forking the repository, clone it to your local device by using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/ShieldSign
```

### Set Up Environment Variables

Set up your environment variables in the `.env` file using the `.env.example` file as a reference.

Alternatively, you can run `cp .env.example .env` to get started with our handpicked defaults.

### Start Database and Mail Server

Run `npm run dx` in the root directory.

This will spin up a Postgres database and inbucket mailserver in a docker container.

### Start the Application

Run `npm run dev` in the root directory to start the application.

### (Optional) Fasten the Process

Want it even faster? Just use:

```sh
npm run d
```

</Steps>

### Access Points for the Project

You can access the following services:

- Main application - http://localhost:3000
- Incoming Mail Access - http://localhost:9000
- Database Connection Details:
- Port: 54320
- Connection: Use your favourite database client to connect to the database.
- S3 Storage Dashboard - http://localhost:9001
